Welcome to the November 2014 program of JW Broadcasting.
This month, you will enjoy meeting a witness couple who lived a comfortable life,
but then one day came to the realization that they could do more in Jehovah's service.
Also, we will visit our brand new educational centre in Florida
and meet some of the first students of the new school for Kingdom Evangelises.
And we'll have an archive video interview with Brother Lloyd Barry,
who shares his experiences as one of the early missionaries in Japan.
We were all excited with the announcement of the new school
that replaced the school for single brothers and the one for Christian couples.
It is the school for Kingdom Evangelises with an all-new curriculum.
We're pleased to inform you that the first two classes in the United States
have completed and the students have received their assignments.
One of the classes was held in a beautiful new facility in Palm Coast, Florida.
This is a beautifully refurbished facility for theocratic education.
We're pleased to provide you with a look at the property
and the work that was accomplished to make it ready for the first class.
You will also hear from some of the students and instructors.
Please enjoy this informational video.
After praying and praying that I could be involved at 72 years old,
this facility came to me.
This is the closest thing I'm ever going to get to working at Bethel.
But as far as I'm concerned, it's everything I've wanted to do my whole life.
The new property was used as a training facility by the previous owner.
Situated on 13 acres, it consists of nine classrooms,
200 guest rooms, and a kitchen and dining room.
Although acquired an excellent condition and partially furnished,
the new campus still required extensive renovations
before the first students arrived on September 4th.
And the support was overwhelming.
At times it's hard to get them to go home for the night.
They just want to stay and continue to work
because they see the amount of work that needs to be done.
And we had a very tight time frame.
The work that was necessary was extensive cleaning.
There was painting work to be done.
Electrical work to be done.
HVAC work to be done.
Plumbing.
And then extensive landscaping was also done.
And it just made the whole area absolutely gorgeous.
Although many of our brothers put in many hours,
others contributed financially.
Whatever the circumstances, everyone put in a whole hearted effort.
We have a brother and he's an older brother.
He showed up one day, a little later than he normally would.
And he apologized.
He said he had just come from a treatment, a medical treatment.
And he said that prior to this project,
he could hardly get out of the bed.
But every day, he's feeling better and better
because he's able to work on site here.
There was a time just a matter of a few weeks ago
when they said that I wasn't going to live.
I have a cancer and I should have a number of cancers.
And I actually felt like I wasn't going to be able to do anything anymore.
And Joe was a arrangement.
And they're letting me be an assistant overseer here
for the outside groundscape.
And I'll do that as long as I'm able to do it.
During the 2015 service year,
14 classes of the School for Kingdom Evangelizers
have been scheduled at the Palm Coast Facility.
With rooming on site, the students can now spend more time on studying.
This place is perfect for education because it's a campus environment.
Some of our brothers would have to travel as much as an hour
to be able to be accommodated in some of the homes and the brothers and sisters.
So it gives them more time for study.
It is a quieter atmosphere for study.
We're talking about the impact of schools like this on a congregation at Need Help.
We've had a number of reports from the previous schools
about where individuals were assigned to a congregation.
The reports have been phenomenal.
The students say the congregations open their arms and welcome them.
And the congregations say this is the best thing that Jehovah could have done for us.
While the school is a blessing for both students and congregations,
it has been especially appreciated by the single sisters
that now have an additional opportunity to expand their ministry.
Sister Tong is one of them.
I'm just like everyone else who just wants to serve Jehovah
with everything I have.
When the announcement was made, I was so excited.
And I made it my goal to submit my application and get my life ready.
I had to get my finances together.
I had to see if I was able to quit my job and be okay.
My brother had just found out he had cancer.
I staged three cancer.
So I had to see whether or not I could leave the family
and that they would be okay with it.
By looking at how Jehovah has guided the students to be able to attend the school,
we can be confident that this new facility will be used to the full.
Sometimes our challenge was not enough time.
We'll have to crunch a schedule
and getting the right people at the right job at the correct time too.
But it seems like every time it worked out the best way it could have worked out.
Jehovah Spirit guided us to make good decisions.
We can see directly that Jehovah has said,
this is where I want you to go.
I believe that the day that I arrived, the carpet had not even been laid yet.
But the next morning, everything was done and the sofas were on top of the carpets
as if nothing had happened the night before.
And I brought to my mind how amazing Jehovah is people, how hardworking they are.
There was perhaps maybe the time frame of a month and a half
and I thought to myself, how will it be possible to get this facility ready
and to make it an educational center?
When I came to this place and I saw hundreds of brothers and sisters who were here,
volunteering and I thought to myself the only way, the only way,
the only way it could be done was through the Spirit of God.
As we have seen time and time again,
with Jehovah's Spirit and willing workers,
much can be accomplished to Jehovah's praise.
We look forward to the dedication of this fully refurbished educational facility
in the not-too-distant future.
While it's important that we care for our own spirituality and that of our family,
our ministry revolves heavily around helping other people.
For a few minutes, I'd like to address the theme, helping people of all language groups.
Do you feel the urgency of the times in which we are now living?
What a privilege we have to be serving God in these last days
at a time when Jehovah is speeding up the kingdom preaching work.
We are seeing the fulfillment of the words recorded in Isaiah 60, verse 22.
Let's read that scripture together.
Isaiah, chapter 60, and verse 22.
There, Jehovah tells us,
the little one will become a thousand
and the small one are mighty nation.
I myself Jehovah will speed it up in its own time.
No matter where we look in the earthly part of Jehovah's organization,
we see that things are progressing at an amazing rate.
The preaching work is penetrating more places.
The Theocratic schools are helping thousands
and the construction work Earthwide is growing.
There are so many exciting developments that we could discuss.
But I'd like to discuss with you something that's very close to my heart.
It's another aspect of our work that has seen some amazing increases,
namely the translation work that is being accomplished by Jehovah's people.
Just a few decades ago, we were producing Bible literature
in a little over 200 languages.
But that figure has now risen to well over 700 languages
and the number continues to increase every week.
Why, just last service year alone, approval was given to start translating
into 88 new languages.
Even more amazing is the fact that some 700 languages are available
on our JW.org website, either as a site language
or as publications that can be downloaded free of charge.
But why is it necessary to do all this translation work?
Is it so that we can become known as the organization
that produces literature in the most number of languages?
No.
We aren't engaged in an academic exercise or some competition.
Rather, we desire to work in harmony with Jehovah's will.
And what is Jehovah's will concerning this matter?
The answer to that question is found in the inspired words of the Apostle Paul
as recorded in 1 Timothy, chapter 2, and verses 3 and 4.
That's 1 Timothy, chapter 2, verses 3 and 4.
This is fine and acceptable in the sight of our Savior, God,
whose will is that all sorts of people should be saved
and come to an accurate knowledge of truth.
The fact is that all sorts of people speak all sorts of languages.
Clearly, then, Jehovah wants everyone to hear the kingdom message
in their own language so that they can be saved
and come to an accurate knowledge of truth.
To illustrate what is involved in accomplishing this work,
imagine this scenario.
You're assigned to preach in an area where people speak a language
that doesn't have any literature at all.
Perhaps you've tried to learn that language and you start preaching to them.
Before long, many show an interest in the truth.
But how can you study with them as they have no literature in their language?
Well, they may have a Bible in their language,
so you might be able to teach them by just using that Bible.
But could they prepare ahead of time for the study?
And how could they do personal Bible study?
Eventually, they start coming to the meetings.
But what songs can they sing?
What material could they discuss?
And how could they prepare for the meetings?
If they don't understand basic Bible truths,
how could they prepare for baptism?
It wouldn't take long for you to realize that these people need literature in their own language.
It's not enough for them to attend meetings held in a language they don't understand.
Regarding Christian meetings, the Apostle Paul wrote the words recorded in 1 Corinthians 14 and verse 9.
1 Corinthians 14 verse 9.
In the same way, unless you with the tongue use speech that is easily understood,
how will anyone know what is being said?
You will, in fact, be speaking into the air.
Well, none of us want to do that.
That's why the governing body continues to approve the translation of our literature into more and more languages,
so as to fill the spiritual needs of those who speak these languages and to help them to come to an accurate knowledge of the truth.
It's true that many of those who speak these languages already know another more common language to be able to converse with others.
So why go to all the trouble of translating the Bible's message into these less common languages?
It's because we try to reach these persons in the language of their heart.
Jehovah God himself set the example by what he did on the day of Pentecost in the year 33 CE.
You might remember that he miraculously enabled the crowds of visitors there in Jerusalem to hear the message not just in the major languages they may have known,
but also in their own native languages or the languages of their birth.
This reminds me of an experience I heard while visiting some islands in the South Pacific.
The brothers there told me about a man who had learned the truth in a language that was not his own native tongue,
but recently he had had an opportunity to hear the truth in his own language, the language of his birth.
What was his reaction? He said, before I could only smell the spiritual food, but now I can really taste it and enjoy it.
How it strengthens our faith to know that our loving Heavenly Father desires that all sorts of persons have an opportunity to hear the truth about him.
And what a privilege we have to be associated with an organization that is helping people of all language groups large and small to do exactly that.
The correspondence department at World Headquarters is heavily involved in directing individuals from all over the world to meetings and publications in their native tongue.
While you and I are out in the service, this is what takes place behind the scenes.
The zealous preaching work carried out by Jehovah's Witnesses touches the lives of millions.
The message and publications they share bring relief to a weary heart, reach beyond the boundaries of language and class.
Sure, I have a bite.
Yeah, yeah, you know what I have some medications.
Thank you.
Being hope to the hopeless.
So what do you think the future holds?
I don't know, I'd like to think things will get better.
You know what, they're calling me, I have to go.
Let me just leave that with you.
Okay, okay, thank you very much.
Understanding to those searching draws parents closer to their children.
Every month, thousands of pieces of correspondence are received from around the world.
Upon arrival, mail is sorted and delivered for processing.
It's exciting to receive letters in so many different languages.
Since many letters must be translated, I use various samples to identify the language.
Grace's letter, like many others, can be quite challenging to identify.
This is Ebo.
So her letter is prepared to be sent electronically to the Nigeria branch for translation.
When a translated letter is received, its purpose is brought to light.
Grace was so moved by the offer that she requested more literature.
We can forward Grace's information to the nearest Ebo speaking publisher.
Soon, she will receive not only literature in her language, but a personal visit.
Hey, Mercy, how are you?
I'm fine, how you doing?
Excellent.
You know, I have a follow-up form for you, someone that speaks Ebo.
I think they live in your neighborhood.
Hi.
I would like a Bible study.
So your first name is Alex?
I just have a follow-up form for an interested person I met in public witnessing.
Every day, elders use JW.org to send please follow-up forms to the US branch.
These forms contain information that help us fulfill the requests of spiritually hungry ones.
Alex's address is matched to a database of congregations within the US branch territory.
An electronic form is then created and sent to the corresponding congregations JW.org account.
Before long, a grateful publisher will be privileged to provide Alex his Bible study.
Every month, hundreds of letters are received from inmates in correctional facilities,
like Paul, who has requested a personal copy of the Bible.
A personalized entry is made for him in our program.
This entry includes information about the facility in which he is incarcerated,
like what literature can be sent and whether they allow visitors.
Paul's request and an address label are sent electronically to the shipping department at Waukel,
where it is prepared for mail-in.
In an effort to provide Paul with further assistance,
a follow-up letter is sent to the closest contact congregation so he can be visited in the near future.
Welcome, my name is Louis.
Good to meet you.
My name is Paul.
Amicia is one of thousands who have used JW.org to request a Bible study in their own language.
Amicia's request is reviewed for accuracy and completeness.
We learn that she is a student at Burton University who prefers literature in Bengali.
Her address is confirmed and the corresponding congregation number is added to the form.
Then an electronic referral is sent for follow-up.
You can imagine the surprise when she is contacted by witnesses who speak her native language.
That looks beautiful.
Numerous pieces of correspondence are received for the world headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses.
Included in these are many heartfelt expressions of gratitude.
These letters are organized, scanned, and sent to the corresponding committees of the governing body.
We can assure you that these expressions of appreciation bring our dear brothers great joy.
Every year thousands of spiritually hungry ones come to know Jehovah and become his witnesses.
You are then to find yourself as one of Jehovah's Witnesses.
It is truly our joy to provide timely assistance that can have a life-changing effect for so many.
Isn't it beautiful to see how much work goes into helping individuals of all backgrounds to worship the true God Jehovah?
But there are so many aspects of sacred service.
Brother Lloyd Barry, who served on the governing body until he finished his earthly course in 1999,
was a missionary and was sent across the world to spread the kingdom good news.
While it was not always easy, brother Barry was greatly blessed by Jehovah for his faithful service.
Enjoy this lively presentation of the early days of his missionary life in Japan.
We went on to Gilead school and what a marvelous place Gilead was.
We were in the 11th class, Melbourne myself.
The second international class, we had them there from all over Europe and from Great Britain and Australia and New Zealand.
There were 108 in the class. Brother Nord come down.
He knew of the troubles in Japan and he'd asked for volunteers to go to Japan.
So some 70 of the 108 volunteered to go to Japan.
He decided that was too many but he selected a group of 28 to learn the Japanese language while the others were all learning French.
So we were well prepared to go to Japan but after we graduated, well you couldn't get into Japan.
It was just after the war and anyone who went there had to have a place pre-arranged to live in.
Finally brother Don Haslet and his wife Mabel Haslet went there as the initial missionaries.
Don did a splendid work of finding homes and purchasing homes at a very low price in those days where other missionaries could be accommodated.
And finally the permits came through for our group to go to Japan.
Travel was interesting in those days. It was a troop ship.
All the men were in one dormitory about 25 passengers and one dormitory and all the women were in with other women.
But we survived the trip until the last day and we ran into our first typhoon.
May, what a typhoon that was. It was just like Andrew, the hurricane Andrew that hit Florida.
But here we were out at sea and the waves were mountains above us and the ship was tossing and plunging into the depths there.
Everyone aboard was seasick but I guess that was all part of the fun.
Next morning the typhoon had gone. The sky was so clear and there we were right facing up against Mount Fuji.
A beautiful view and the clear air at Mount Fuji and we thought well this is a nice welcome to Japan.
So we sailed into Yokohama port there and we looked at those people and we knew at the time they were only a handful.
Maybe half a dozen kingdom publishers active in the country we wondered well anything ever come out of this.
So we went up to Tokyo we saw the branch there and that night they shipped us down to Kobe which is our missionary assignment.
And I'll never forget those early missionary days there.
We first arrived we didn't have any beds so we just cut down the grass in the garden and heaped grass in the rooms
and put a blanket across the grass and we slept on the grass for about three weeks until we could get some beds
and everyone wanted to listen to us. And our big problem was to find out who was really interested in the truth.
In Melbourne for example she talked to a lady at the house and this lady showed much interest in the foreigners.
She went upstairs and she brought down a Japanese English dictionary and they talked through this dictionary for a while.
Melbourne got a study there and the lady next door studied with them and she was one of our first publishers that woman that we met on the first day.
In fact they both became publishers and the senior one she's pioneered for years and years.
We got a little fruitage there on the very first day.
I remember one month when we had 12 missionaries in the home we reported 360 studies.
That was 30 studies for missionary so you can imagine we weren't doing anything there but conduct studies.
The problem was who were really interested.
Let me cut that down after a while because they realised you had to keep up house to house activity to identify new ones.
We used to have a lot of fun learning the language. One of the first public talks I gave I went from Kobe to Osaka and I was giving this talk.
There were two young Japanese ladies sitting in the front row and they were straining their ears, they were listening, listening.
And after two months they looked at each other and they both first out laughing.
So after I had finished the talk I said to the young ladies what was so funny about my talk.
They said well we were trying so hard to understand your English and suddenly we realised there was Japanese.
So that's how good my Japanese was in those days.
After we learned enough of the language to really converse with the people and really get to and fro with them in the Japanese language.
And right away as soon as we started to study in Japanese we lost about two thirds of our studies.
And that's how we learned who were interested in us or who were interested in the truth.
It's interesting that in the first ten years in Japan and we had up to 60 missionaries in the country by that time
we got just 1000 publishers and now in Japan they get 1000 publishers increase every month.
But when the work really started to blossom was when families came in and families formed the foundation of the congregations.
If you had two or three good families, husband, wife, children and the truth you had a foundation there you could really build on.
And that has been one of the big contributory points in the development of the work in Japan.
You talk about Jehovah speeding the work up well that means it's been speeded up 120 times since those early days of missionary work.
There's nothing here on this earth to compare with God's organisation. There's never been anything even back in Bible times to compare with what Jehovah has now and what he's doing now.
So I must say it's been a great privilege to be in contact with the door and when you look back over the years you really do appreciate your privileges and it makes you feel humble and that you should be a lot more humble than you really are
because after all none of us is more than just a little piece of dirt you might say and why is it that Jehovah uses us stick at it near brothers and sisters.
You're in perhaps the most privileged place in the world today and let your joy keep overflowing and just stay with it and Jehovah will bless you.
If you have the circumstances to expand your ministry to serve with the need is greater like brother and sister Barry did I warmly recommend it.
I had the privilege of serving in Fiji and some nearby islands a few years back and I still have very fond memories from my time there.
But it's not a requirement to move to another country to serve with the need is greater.
You can talk to your circuit overseer to see if there's a need locally in the circuit.
You're about to meet the Gonoz. They have served in Bethel for 44 years and brother Gonoz has served as the coordinator of the Netherlands branch committee since 1990.
But looking back on their long service for Jehovah they set priorities early on that changed the rest of their lives.
I was raised in the truth. I was baptized when I was about 11 years old together with my father.
And we had a very teocratic household my parents were very jealous in field service and they attended all the meetings.
So we had a very good teocratic family a very warm nest in which we grew up.
At the age of 20 I was called up for the military service. I refused so I had to go to prison.
And I still remember when I came in the south and when I heard that heavy door close behind me.
And then the key turned a few times in the lock.
It stood there alone and in this first day when I was there I was wondering for myself why am I here?
Am I just here to do what any other witness is doing or is it my personal decision?
On the basis of my personal belief and I was really confronted with myself.
For the first time in my life, conscientiously I had the feeling that I was doing something for Jehovah and that has strengthened my face.
It was a turn point in my life.
We became engaged when Willy was in prison and because at that time the watchtower publications were banned in prison.
So I made hundred copies of the watchtower and I sent them to him.
I sent her love letters and she sent me copies of the watchtower.
When I was released from prison about two years later we married and then I could find a very well-paid job.
And we had a beautiful house, we had a nice car or so.
And it was my wish that Frida would not have to work secularly.
And that was what was our aim, the future was ours.
Shortly after our marriage we invited the circuit over here to have dinner with us.
And during the meal he looked at us and he said,
you have to tell me something, why are you not pioneering?
That was a straight forward question.
We couldn't answer, we didn't think about pioneering.
I really don't know why we were not pioneering.
As a young girl I always wanted to pioneer even become a missionary.
I wanted to pioneer then but I couldn't.
And now I could and I didn't do it.
At that time we were thinking that we already did what was right.
Besides being very jealous in the truth I tried to take care of my lovely wife as good as I could.
But was it really the best way to take care of her?
That same evening we prayed to Jehovah and we promised him that we would fully rely on him.
According to Matthew 633 and that's what we did.
That same week I resigned my job and we cancelled the rent of our house.
And shortly thereafter we moved to a small apartment and then we started a new life pioneering.
Of course we made some sacrifices.
Our previous house had everything.
Now a new apartment then we did not even have a shower.
But we knew that we have made the right choice.
Because from then on Jehovah was really providing for everything.
We enjoyed very much serving Jehovah together.
Four months later we were appointed as special pioneers.
And after that many other privileges followed.
We really had the privilege to attend Giliat school.
He was invited without me of course and that was a sacrifice.
But later I had the privilege to join Willy when he was visiting different branches over the world.
That was really a blessing.
Full-time service has given us really a meaningful life.
It is a pleasure to realize that we use our strength to seek God's kingdom first.
We are so happy that someone helped us to make the right choices right after our marriage.
Jehovah has blessed us all the way.
Looking back on these 47 years of full-time service, we feel that we have had a very rich spiritual life.
We are so happy that we invited a circle over here for dinner that day.
The gonos made the right choices and Jehovah rewarded them.
But all of us face decisions every day.
Some big, some small.
Some seemingly small decisions may have big consequences.
With that in mind, pay special attention to this morning worship program from Bethel
that highlights the value of deciding to curb wrong desires immediately.
And we said earlier that it sounds like we'll be talking about marriage.
And so if you look at verse 6, you see our days text, what God has joked together, let no man put apart.
But actually, if you look at verse 3, you'll see the topic was divorce.
And Jesus used our days text to set the Pharisees straight on the matter of divorce.
But then in verse 9, he said,
I say to you that whoever divorces his wife except on the grounds of sexual immorality and marries another commits adultery.
So since the topic is marriage and divorce, can our single brothers and sisters just tune out of our discussion?
No.
Sometimes the man who puts apart the yoke that God put together proves to be a single person.
And so look at the first sentence in our Watchtower comments.
It says, whether single or married, all of us need to bear in mind Jesus' words.
Well, does coveting another's mate happen in the Christian congregation?
Yes.
How does it happen?
Well, if you look at the third sentence in our Watchtower comments for today, it says,
if any Christian begins to entertain, that's how it happens.
Begins to entertain such a covetous desire.
It says he should, here she should quickly route it out, the unclean desire, even at the cost of great emotional pain.
Because in here again, how does it happen?
Having allowed such selfish cravings to develop.
Well, at the point described in our sentence here, the other person likely does not even realize that this person has covetous desire for them.
The desire is just beginning to be entertained.
And you notice a sentence did not say that he and she should route it out.
It says he or she should act quickly.
So it was a lone individual at this point.
Well, how does this covetous desire begin?
In the world, it could be at the first sighting of an attractive person, they instantly have a desire for more.
But we have been groomed by Jehovah's word.
We have a high regard for morality.
So in the congregation, or even here at Bethel, the desire may develop not solely based on looks, but on emotional attachment.
Usually, the breaking of the yoke of marriage occurs when a third party is spending a considerable amount of time with one of the mates.
And we might mention that this is not necessarily with malicious intent.
I just one scenario, a single pioneer brother and a married pioneer sister.
Well, obviously, they're going to be spending more time together than if either one of them was not pioneering.
And periodically, they'll be in the same car group.
Over time, they get to know one another more.
And this is just circumstances.
But this can lead up to that third sentence in our comments where one of them, usually unbeknownst the other one, has began to entertain this covetous desire.
He needs to route that out quickly.
Otherwise, there is a whole series of sad events that could be launched that potentially could end up with the married sister divorced.
Well, this same progression can happen here at Bethel, too, if a brother and sister work together day after day.
Open, please, the Colossians three, five now.
Our watch star comment said route out the desire. Colossians says dead in the desire.
But notice what happens if we do not quickly route out the desire.
Colossians three, five.
It says dead in, dead in, therefore, your body members that are on the earth as respects one sexual immorality to uncleanest, uncontrolled sexual passion, hurtful desire, and greediness.
It says all of which is idolatry.
Well, the five inappropriate steps listed there seem to be in the order of gravity with the most serious being first.
Look at the fifth one, greediness.
Now, our previous edition used the word covetousness there.
But really, the fundamental issue is greed.
Look one step back, hurtful, or we could say covetous desire.
Well, if we do not route it out immediately at the start of that stage, what develops further.
Another step back, it says uncontrolled sexual passion.
And if we do not dead at that point, go one step back, uncleanest.
You see, now something physical has occurred between the two already.
Not fornication, but uncleanest.
And if we do not check it at that point, the most serious will occur.
Sexual immorality with the potential of breaking the one flesh bond.
Well, we want our brothers and sisters to continue to pioneer together single and married.
And it's impossible to adjust the circumstances of Bethel so that our brother and sister never work together.
So how can we all protect ourselves from allowing this wrong desire to develop?
Please turn to Job 31.
We've considered these series of verses before, but it's so pertinent to this discussion.
Let's be reminded of it, Job 31.
We call Job the integrity keeper rightly so, but he was an imperfect integrity keeper.
He evidently had some thoughts and desires that troubled him.
Well, what did he do to quickly route out that desire, not allowed to develop further?
Job 31 is our familiar one.
I have made a covenant with my eye, so how could I show my show improper attention to a virgin?
Well, what's your place there?
But why would Job be moved to make a contract not to look at a woman with improper desire?
He must have been aware of some temptations within himself.
And so he took this strong measure to avoid it developing further.
We start to entertain a wrong desire, what should we do?
And I might mention this works for those who've had a problem with pornography.
Why not type up a contract with your eyes, sign it, and date it?
Put it in your wallet or next to the computer and review it periodically?
And then if you succumb to the desire again, save that contract, but type up another one, sign it, and date it.
You see, in time we can compare the duration between the contract dates and we can monitor our progress.
Well, hurtful desire leads to more and more depravity.
And that's the series of verses here in 31.
Look at verse 3.
Did Job realize this series of events?
3. Does not disaster await the wrongdoer and calamity of those doing what is harmful?
Verse 4, he knew he could not hide anything from Jehovah.
6 is powerful. He realized this is an issue of integrity.
Let God weigh me in accurate scales.
Then he will recognize my integrity.
Wrong desire. Is that serious?
He also realized that looking at entices the heart in a wrong direction.
Verse 7, if my footsteps deviate from the way where my heart has followed after my eyes.
And verse 9, you see, on the same subject as verse 1,
if my heart has been enticed by a woman.
And what would be the consequences of this progression of events?
A judicial case.
Look at verse 11, for that would be shameful conduct and an error deserving punishment by the judges.
So in summary, what God has joked together, let no man put apart.
That was good counsel for all of us.
And don't forget that you can also find additional morning worship programs on the programs and events channel.
At the 2013 regional conventions, we all received the touching video, The Particle Returns.
Have you ever wondered what is involved in producing one of the organization's videos?
If you go to the Our Activities channel on JW Broadcasting,
you'll find a documentary that will take you behind the scenes of The Particle Returns.
We are so well cared for spiritually with the many publications we receive and the congregation meetings on a weekly basis.
And how much we appreciate the governing body adjusting our meeting times
so that we can spend an evening each week in personal study or if we're married in family worship.
When there are children involved, the spiritual head of the family is encouraged to be innovative
and make the time spent interesting for those of varying ages.
But what if it's just you and your marriage mate?
Watch this interesting portrayal of the circumstances faced by a married couple?
Change. It happens all the time in life.
How we adapt to change isn't always easy.
As a family, we've always tried to put Jehovah in his will first.
And now it's time for change again.
Let me explain.
Family worship has always been an important part of our spiritual routine.
Studying with our children came naturally.
It just flowed and we enjoyed it.
But when the last of our children moved out, we just hit a wall.
I was finding it awkward to study with my wife alone.
Our family worship was becoming nothing more than a stale question and answer session.
And gradually, it got worse.
Until finally, we stopped altogether.
Sometimes with change, we just need a wake-up call.
I had almost forgotten how deep a student of the Bible she is.
How could I make our family worship more enjoyable for her, for myself, for both of us?
I had to do something.
The faithful slave has always encouraged husbands to study with their wives.
I've meditated on 1 Peter the 3rd chapter, verse 7, where it says,
You husbands continue dwelling with them according to knowledge.
Assign them on.
I reflected on the example of Abraham and Sarah.
At one point, Abraham had to adjust and pay attention to his wife's feelings.
In fact, Jehovah said, listen to her.
Was I listening?
Like Abraham and Sarah, it was time for us to have a heart to heart.
I let her know that her feelings really mattered to me and that with a little creativity
and finding material that would interest both of us.
Our studies could be more enjoyable.
We decided to make a new start.
Family worship is taken on a fresh and exciting new role in our marriage.
In fact, it is the highlight of our week.
A variety to our studies.
They are now more rich.
Meaningful and engaging.
Yes, change can bring about new challenges.
But it also creates new opportunities.
Together, we are drawing closer to each other and to Jehovah.
Did you notice how the brother took firm action when he noticed that an adjustment was needed
in their method of worshiping together as a married couple?
He researched the matter and put effort into making it come alive.
A great example for all of us to follow if we detect our methods
and not stimulating the mind and heart of each other.
The closer we get to the end of the system of things,
the more we need to keep in mind how Jehovah always cares for his people.
For example, think about Jesus' words in Luke 21 verse 11.
He said, there will be great earthquakes
and in one place after another, food shortages and pestilences.
If you have been affected by a disaster,
rest assured that Jehovah knows what you are going through
and that his organization will do all it can to provide help.
And that is the theme of this music video.
We won't forget you.
It has been a pleasure to have you with us for our November program.
As highlighted, Jehovah is doing his part in providing for
theocratic education, translation into hundreds of languages
and motivating us to do what we can in his service.
Even if we personally are not presently in a position to move to another country
or even to another congregation,
the examples we have seen today highlight one important thing
that we always do our best in Jehovah's service.
First Timothy 4 and verse 10 assures us,
this is why we are working hard and exerting ourselves
because we have rested our hope on a living God
who is a savior of all sorts of men, especially of faithful ones.
Yes, our objective is to be viewed as faithful ones by Jehovah.
Only then can we have a lasting hope for the future,
knowing that he will provide a strength both now and to all eternity.
We'd like to conclude the program with these pictures
from what will soon become the new world headquarters
in Warwick, New York.
Over 1,500 brothers and sisters are working their every day
in its construction.
I'm sure that they all agree that it is Jehovah who is taking the lead.
Until next time, this is JW Broadcasting in Brooklyn, New York.